# On The Automatization of Legal Work 
This post picks up where we left off in my previous post. To find out which tasks in the daily work of a legal professional offer themselves for automatization we first need to carefully analyze the work. In a second step we can isolate the repetitive tasks and examine possible ways of automating them. 


## Debt Collection 
Our first example is the collection of debts as a task. A typical collection process could look like this: 
The practitioner is presented with a court title from his client. He now must go through a mental checklist including: 

- Does the presented document meet the criteria of a court title? 
- Is the title already legally binding? 
- Is the title a valid basis for an execution? 
- Which concrete forms of execution are available? 
- Which is the competent court? 

Of course, these questions seem trivial to a seasoned lawyer. Most of the time these questions are already answered by a paralegal when presented to the responsible lawyer. Still, the work needs to be done. Whether it’s a trained paralegal or a lawyer, a thought process called subsumption must be ran through: By placing the individual concrete facts under a general abstract legal norm a certain legal consequence is obtained. 


## Dissecting the subsumption 
To answer the question “Does the presented document meet the criteria of a court title?” we must look up the relevant regulation body and find the relevant provision. Then we must check if the document meets the criteria laid out in the provision. 

The finding of a relevant body of regulation seems to be a straightforward task. Given that the whole regulatory body of a jurisdiction is available in text form we must match our document with the relevant law. At first glance very similar to a Google search. But there are many difficulties: Laws change over time. We must make sure, that we are trying to match the correct version. Then there is the question of how precisely a match can be found? - I will develop my ideas on that in later posts. 

The actual confrontation of a provision that we (or our digital assistant) think is relevant with the concrete facts of a case appears much harder. Especially if we want reliable and unambiguous results – I will expand the challenges presenting themselves in another later post. 

