# Introduction - a letter to Santa Clause

This is the first in a series of articles on what the concept of AI could do for the every-day legal work. 

## My starting point
I am a legal professional, I have passed the Austrian equivalent of the bar exam and I have several years of legal practice under my belt. "Years of legal practice" means that I conducted countless court proceedings and drafted an equal amount of contracts in different fields such as commercial law, criminal law, insolvency law and real estate law. This kind of work has two sides. 

One side is well represented in Hollywood movies: exciting court hearing and thrilling negotiations. Some like to add the intellectual thrill of finding an obscure precedent that saves the day or the inner satisfaction arising from the artful creation of a new and complex contract. 

Then there is the other side no one likes to talk about. The grind. If you want to shine in court, your preparation must be meticulous. Every detail is important.  Your opponent will take great strides to find the very aspect of a case you neglected to prepare. You must be prepared for everything. So, you prepare. You read and memorize documents; highlight parts you deem important and organize everything in folders. But files tend to become a mess the longer you work with them, and the process intensifies rapidly when more than one person works a case. A lot of time and energy goes into keeping your files in order. In YOUR order, mind you! Training someone else to keep things the way you need them or even like them takes even more time and energy. 

## Where am I going? 
There is one thing i would like to have: An artificial assistant that keeps my work in order. My order. And every one of my team would have such an assistant for his own way of doing things. They are present at whatever time of the day (or night) you need them, work incredibly fast and reliable. And our real support team consisting of actual human beings could concentrate on more rewarding work as well. There, I said it: I want an AI app that keeps my documents in order. 

That wasn't so difficult, was it? Now what other tedious daily steps can I rid me of? I am thinking of micro steps that happen all the time. Steps that add up to countless hours and that drain you of the energy that should be reserved for "the other side". Steps that are maybe an integral part of the work that I can't outsource to someone else (human) lest this person spends a lot of time watching me work and only intervening when such a particular step comes up. An artificial assistant on the other hand could do precisely that. 

I will develop this thought together with examples in later posts. But what is more important: I will sketch my thoughts on how to realize such assistants. Because Christmas is still some time away. 


